% to be written by pierre

The quad-triangle subdivision scheme was introduced by
Levin~\cite{l-pg-03}, then Stam and Loop~\cite{qts}. It applies to
polygon meshes and basically features Loop subdivision on triangles
and Catmull-Clark subdivision on polygons of the control mesh (see
Fig.\ref{fig:quad-triangle}). After one iteration of subdivision the
subdivided model is only composed of triangles and quads.

\begin{figure}
    \centering{\includegraphics[width=7.0cm]{figs/quad-triangle}}
    \caption{Quad-triangle subdivision scheme.}
    \label{fig:quad-triangle}
\end{figure}

One solution for implementing quad-triangle scheme is to use an
auxiliary class that supports the incremental construction of
polyhedral surfaces, the \italic{incremental builder}. The incremental
construction starts with a list of all point coordinates and concludes
with a list of all facet polygons given by a sequence of vertex
indices.  Beside being of interest for constructing polyhedral
surfaces from indexed file formats, the incremental builder can be
used from any other data structures, namely from an input mesh.\\

The vertex, face and halfedge class primitives of the Polyhedron are
initially enriched with an integer tag. The incremental builder first
iterates over all primitives of the input mesh and circulates around
their incident primitives to deduce the positions of the new vertices
from the geometry rules. The integer tags keep track of the index of
the new vertices in the input mesh, allowing a straigtforward assembly
of all indexed triangles, resp. quads as the Loop, resp. barycentric
subdivision refinement rules are applied for each facet of the input
model.

