\chapter{Introduction}

This part of the reference manual covers the higher-dimensional
kernel.  The kernel contains objects of constant size, such as point,
vector, direction, line, ray, segment, circle.  With each type comes a
set of functions which can be applied to an object of this type.  You
will typically find access functions (e.g.\ to the coordinates of a
point), tests of the position of a point relative to the object, a
function returning the bounding box, the length, or the area of an
object, and so on.  The \cgal\ kernel further contains basic
operations such as affine transformations, detection and computation
of intersections, and distance computations. Note that this section
partly recapitulates facts already mentioned for the lower-dimensional
kernel.

\section{Robustness}

The correctness proof of nearly all geometric algorithms presented in
theory papers assumes exact computation with real numbers.  This leads
to a fundamental problem with the implementation of geometric
algorithms.  Naively, often the exact real arithmetic is replaced by
inexact floating-point arithmetic in the implementation.  This often
leads to acceptable results for many input data.  However, even for
the implementation of the simplest geometric algorithms this
simplification occasionally does not work.  Rounding errors introduced
by inaccurate arithmetic may lead to inconsistent decisions, causing
unexpected failures for some correct input data.  There are many
approaches to this problem, one of them is to compute exactly (compute
so accurate that all decisions made by the algorithm are exact) which
is possible in many cases but more expensive than standard
floating-point arithmetic.  C.~M.~Hoffmann~\cite{h-gsm-89,h-pargc-89}
illustrates some of the problems arising in the implementation of
geometric algorithms and discusses some approaches to solve them.  A
more recent overview is given in \cite{s-rpigc-00}.  The exact
computation paradigm is discussed by Yap and Dub\'e \cite{yd-ecp-95}
and Yap \cite{y-tegc-97}.

In \cgal\ you can choose the underlying number types and arithmetic.
You can use different types of arithmetic simultaneously and the
choice can be easily changed, e.g.\ for testing.  So you can choose
between implementations with fast but occasionally inexact arithmetic
and implementations guaranteeing exact computation and exact results.
Of course you have to pay for the exactness in terms of execution time
and storage space.  See the section on number types in the
\ccAnchor{./support/contents.html}{Support Library} for more details
on number types and their capabilities and performance.

\section{Genericity}

To increase generic usage of objects and predicates the
higher-dimensional kernel makes heavy use of iterator ranges as
defined in the STL for modelling tuples. Iterators conceptualize C++
pointers. 

For an iterator range \ccc{[first,last)} we define \ccc{T = tuple
  [first,last)} as the ordered tuple $(T[0],T[1], \ldots T[d-1])$
where $S[i] = *++^{(i)}\mathit{first}$ (the element obtained by $i$
times forwarding the iterator by operator \ccc{++} and then
dereferencing it to get the value to which it points).  We write \ccc{d
  = size [first,last)} and \ccc{S = set [first,last)} to denote the
unordered set of elements of the corresponding tuple.

This extends the syntax of random access iterators to input iterators.
If we index the tuple as above then we require that
$++^{(d+1)}\mathit{first} = \mathit{last}$.

