\ccRefPageBegin

\begin{ccRefFunction}{overlay}

\ccDefinition

Computes the overlay of two input arrangement instances \ccc{arr1} and
\ccc{arr2} and sets the output arrangement \ccc{res} to represent the
overlaid arrangement. All three arrangements are instantiated using the
same geometric traits class, but may be represented using different
\dcel\ classes. In order to properly construct the overlaid \dcel\ that
represents \ccc{res}, the function uses the overlay-traits object
\ccc{ovl_tr}, which should be a model of the \ccc{OverlayTraits} concept,
which is able to construct records of the \ccc{ResDcel} class on the
basis of the \ccc{Dcel1} and \ccc{Dcel2} records that induce them.

\ccInclude{CGAL/Arr_overlay.h}

\ccGlobalFunction{template<typename Traits, typename Dcel1, typename Dcel2,
                           typename RedDcel, typename OverlayTraits>
            void overlay (const Arrangement_2<Traits,Dcel1>& arr1,
	                  const Arrangement_2<Traits,Dcel2>& arr2,
                          Arrangement_2<Traits,ResDcel>& res,
                          OverlayTraits ovl_tr);}
\ccPrecond{\ccc{res} does not refer to either \ccc{arr1} or \ccc{arr2}
(that is, ``self overlay'' is not supported).}

%%%%

\ccThree{Orientation~~}{}{\hspace*{8.5cm}}

Computes the overlay of two input arrangement-with-history instances
\ccc{arr1} and \ccc{arr2} and sets the output arrangement \ccc{res}
to represent the overlaid arrangement. All three arrangements are
instantiated using the same geometric traits class, but may be represented
using different \dcel\ classes. In order to properly construct the
overlaid \dcel\ that represents \ccc{res}, the function uses the
overlay-traits object \ccc{ovl_tr}, which should be a model of the
\ccc{OverlayTraits} concept, which is able to construct records of the
\ccc{ResDcel} class on the basis of the \ccc{Dcel1} and \ccc{Dcel2}
records that induce them. The function also constructs a consolidated set
of curves that induce \ccc{res}.

\ccInclude{CGAL/Arrangement_with_history_2.h}

\ccGlobalFunction{template<typename Traits, typename Dcel1, typename Dcel2,
                           typename RedDcel, typename OverlayTraits>
            void overlay (const Arrangement_with_history_2<Traits,Dcel1>& arr1,
	                  const Arrangement_with_history_2<Traits,Dcel2>& arr2,
                          Arrangement_2<Traits,ResDcel>& res,
                          OverlayTraits ovl_tr);}

\ccSeeAlso
  \ccc{OverlayTraits}\lcTex{(\ccRefPage{OverlayTraits})}

\end{ccRefFunction}

\ccRefPageEnd
